man/mta-sts-daemon.1.adoc, before:

= mta-sts-daemon(1)
:doctype: manpage
:manmanual: mta-sts-daemon
:mansource: postfix-mta-sts-resolver

== Name

mta-sts-daemon - provide MTA-STS policy to Postfix as policy map

== Synopsis

*mta-sts-daemon* [_OPTION_]...

== Description

This daemon opens a socket where Postfix can query and retrieve the MTA-STS
policy for a domain.  The configuration file is described in
*mta-sts-daemon.yml*(5).

MTA-STS, specified in RFC 8461 [0], is a security standard for email servers.
When a site configures MTA-STS, other mail servers can require the
successful authentication of that site when forwarding mail there.

== Options

*-h, --help*::
  show a help message and exit

*-v, --verbosity* _VERBOSITY_::
  set log verbosity level: _debug_, _info_ (default), _warn_, _error_, or
  _fatal_.

*-c, --config* _FILE_::
  config file location (default: _/etc/mta-sts-daemon.yml_)

*-l, --logfile* _FILE_::
  log file location (default: _none_)

*--disable-uvloop*::
  do not use uvloop even if it is available (default: enabled if available)

== Examples

Configure Postfix in _/etc/postfix/main.cf_:

 smtp_tls_policy_maps = socketmap:inet:127.0.0.1:8461:postfix
 smtp_tls_CApath = /etc/ssl/certs/

Reload Postfix.  Then verify it works:

*/usr/sbin/postmap -q dismail.de socketmap:inet:127.0.0.1:8461:postfix*

== See also

*mta-sts-query*(1), *mta-sts-daemon.yml*(5)

== Notes

0.::
  *SMTP MTA Strict Transport Security (MTA-STS)*: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8461

Commit message:

mta-sts-daemon(1): notice overriding DANE

man/mta-sts-daemon.1.adoc, after:

= mta-sts-daemon(1)
:doctype: manpage
:manmanual: mta-sts-daemon
:mansource: postfix-mta-sts-resolver

== Name

mta-sts-daemon - provide MTA-STS policy to Postfix as policy map

== Synopsis

*mta-sts-daemon* [_OPTION_]...

== Description

This daemon opens a socket where Postfix can query and retrieve the MTA-STS
policy for a domain.  The configuration file is described in
*mta-sts-daemon.yml*(5).

MTA-STS, specified in RFC 8461 [0], is a security standard for email servers.
When a site configures MTA-STS, other mail servers can require the
successful authentication of that site when forwarding mail there.

== Options

*-h, --help*::
  show a help message and exit

*-v, --verbosity* _VERBOSITY_::
  set log verbosity level: _debug_, _info_ (default), _warn_, _error_, or
  _fatal_.

*-c, --config* _FILE_::
  config file location (default: _/etc/mta-sts-daemon.yml_)

*-l, --logfile* _FILE_::
  log file location (default: _none_)

*--disable-uvloop*::
  do not use uvloop even if it is available (default: enabled if available)

== Examples

Configure Postfix in _/etc/postfix/main.cf_:

 smtp_tls_policy_maps = socketmap:inet:127.0.0.1:8461:postfix
 smtp_tls_CApath = /etc/ssl/certs/

Reload Postfix.  Then verify it works:

*/usr/sbin/postmap -q dismail.de socketmap:inet:127.0.0.1:8461:postfix*

This configuration overrides DANE TLS authentication. If you wish to meet the
requirement of RFC 8461, section 2, you should list a DANE policy resolver (or 
a static lookup table for domains known to implement both MTA-STS & DANE) before
mta-sts-daemon in smtp_tls_policy_maps.

== See also

*mta-sts-query*(1), *mta-sts-daemon.yml*(5)

== Notes

0.::
  *SMTP MTA Strict Transport Security (MTA-STS)*: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8461
